
Claude finished the response

Here is a comprehensive handoff prompt you can copy and paste directly into Claude: --- # Handoff Prompt for Claude ```markdown I am handing over an in-progress Python RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) project that recently encountered backend issues with the LLM synthesis pipeline. Rea

pasted


Diagnosed issue and formulated corrected code solution
Diagnosed issue and formulated corrected code solution
Good news: your current bug has a clean, known cause, and it's not really a code architecture problem — it's model deprecation.

Root cause
gemini-2.0-flash and gemini-2.0-flash-lite (and their -001 variants) were shut down by Google on June 1, 2026. Every request to them now returns 404 NOT_FOUND — which is exactly the symptom in your "Error 3" bucket, just under a different model name than you originally hit it with. That's why your fallback list currently fails.

There's a second trap waiting for you: gemini-2.5-flash is also being retired (scheduled Oct 16, 2026), and multiple developers are already reporting it returning "no longer available" ahead of that date. So don't migrate to it as your long-term target — you'd be back here in a few weeks.

The currently-GA, non-deprecated models as of now are gemini-3.6-flash (main workhorse, better token efficiency) and gemini-3.5-flash-lite (cheap/low-latency fallback). Those are what I've used in the fix below.

Other things I fixed while in there
Blocking the event loop — db.execute(...) is synchronous SQLAlchemy, called directly inside async def routes. Under load this stalls FastAPI's event loop. Wrapped both DB calls in run_in_threadpool.
Hardcoded model list liability — added a models.list()-based dynamic fallback so a future Google deprecation doesn't require another manual fire drill; static list stays as the fast-path first try.
Duplicate encoding — I checked; in the code you pasted, /synthesize only encodes the query once. That item on your task list appears to be stale from an earlier version — nothing to fix there currently.
I left SSE streaming as a follow-up since it's a bigger structural change (needs a streaming response model + Streamlit-side rewrite) — happy to do that as a separate pass once synthesis is stable.


Ran 3 commands, created a file, read a file
Ran 3 commands, created a file, read a file
What changed vs. your version:

Area	Before	After
Model list	gemini-2.0-flash, gemini-2.0-flash-lite (both retired June 1, 2026)	gemini-3.6-flash, gemini-3.5-flash-lite (currently GA)
Model resilience	Fails hard once both hardcoded names die	Falls back to client.models.list() to auto-discover a live flash model
DB calls in async routes	Blocking, inline	Wrapped in run_in_threadpool
Response	—	Now returns model_used so you can see which model actually answered
One thing worth flagging on your .env: make sure GEMINI_API_KEY is tied to a project with billing enabled, or you'll be back in 429 territory even with a valid model name — the free tier's RPM limits are what took you down before.

If you want, I can do the SSE streaming pass next, or take a look at models.py / app.py if those are also acting up.


Main
PY 
1785611085225_image.png

Diagnosed schema mismatch and strategized debugging approach
Diagnosed schema mismatch and strategized debugging approach
The synthesis fix worked — you're getting a real grounded answer with sourced bullet points now, so the model swap did its job.

The new error is unrelated to Gemini: Unexpected error: 'region' under "Cited Context" is a Python KeyError on the string 'region'. Something in app.py — most likely the code rendering each cited source, given the "Target Region" filter dropdown you have — is trying to read a region key/attribute off each article result (e.g. article['region'] or source.get('region') used without a default), but the API response schema (ArticleResponse / ArticleSearchResult in main.py) never included a region field, and neither did your models.py Article table as far as I've seen. So the frontend is expecting data the backend was never built to send.

Two ways to fix it depending on what you actually want:

If region filtering isn't real yet (just UI scaffolding) — patch app.py defensively: swap article['region'] for article.get('region', 'Unknown'), or wherever it's failing.
If you want the region filter to actually work — region needs to become a real column: add it to Article in models.py, include it in ArticleResponse/ArticleSearchResult in main.py, and populate it during ingestion (probably derivable from source, e.g. mapping "Kathmandu Post" → Nepal, "Reuters" → Global).
Could you paste the app.py section that renders "Cited Context" (or the whole file if it's not huge)? I want to patch the exact line rather than guess at variable names and risk breaking something else in the UI.


Identified critical mismatches in webhook configuration and security implementation
Identified critical mismatches in webhook configuration and security implementation
Good that you showed me this — there are real problems here, not just cosmetic differences. This looks like Gemini's own attempt to restore the file after the revert: it correctly rebuilt the RAG/synthesis logic to match what we'd built, but improvised its own version of the WhatsApp webhook section instead of using the code I'd just written, and that improvised version has three real issues:

Route path mismatch: this version serves /webhook/whatsapp (singular) — but the URL I gave you to configure in Meta's console was /webhooks/whatsapp (plural). If the console still has the plural path saved, this code would 404 on every request from Meta, silently.
Security regression — fails open, not closed: look at _verify_whatsapp_signature here:
python
   if not WHATSAPP_APP_SECRET:
       return True
If WHATSAPP_APP_SECRET isn't set for any reason (missing from .env, a typo in the variable name), this treats that as "signature verified" and accepts the request anyway — the exact opposite of what a signature check should do. The correct behavior is to reject when verification can't happen, not silently allow it.

The actual approval logic is missing entirely. receive_whatsapp_webhook here just logs the incoming event and returns 200 — it never parses the button tap, never looks up the Post, never updates its status, never sends a confirmation reply. Even with the URL and signature issues fixed, tapping "Approve" would currently do nothing at all.
What's good for us here is clear: keep the file I already gave you last turn, not this one — it has the correct path, fails closed on missing signature verification, and actually processes the approval. I haven't changed anything since, so re-download the same "main" file from two turns ago (or let me know if you'd like me to re-share it), replace this version with it, and — importantly — double-check Meta's console still has /webhooks/whatsapp (plural) saved as the callback URL, since that's the one thing that has to match exactly between the two systems.


Identified template mismatch and prescribed corrective restructuring approach
Identified template mismatch and prescribed corrective restructuring approach
Good progress getting a template submitted, but there's a real mismatch worth fixing before it gets approved — as configured, it won't work with what we've built:

Two things missing from what was created:

No body variables — the message is a fixed string ("Your post approval request has been generated for review."), but whatsapp_bot.py sends two dynamic values (a tag like "English / nepal / politics", and the actual post summary) expecting to fill in {{1}} and {{2}}. Sending those parameters to a template with zero placeholders will fail the API call outright — Meta validates the parameter count against the template.
No buttons at all — this is the more important one. Without Quick Reply buttons, there's no way to actually approve or reject anything — the entire point of switching to WhatsApp was one-tap approval. A plain notification with no buttons defeats the purpose.
Fix — go back into the template and set it up like this:

Body text:
  New post pending approval ({{1}})

  {{2}}

  Tap a button below to approve or reject.
When Meta's UI asks for sample values (needed for review), give something plausible: {{1}} → English / nepal / politics, {{2}} → a sample news summary sentence.

Buttons: add 2 Quick Reply buttons — label them Approve and Reject (the exact label text doesn't matter to our code; what matters is that there are exactly two quick-reply buttons, since we attach the real post ID to each one dynamically when actually sending the message, not at template-creation time).
On whether you can edit the current "In review" one or need to start over: try editing it first — if Meta's UI won't let you touch it while under review, delete it and create a fresh one (same name post_approval_request is fine to reuse once the old one's gone). Either way, don't run whatsapp_bot.py yet — it would fail against the current template.

Let me know which path you end up taking (edit vs. recreate) and the new status once resubmitted.




Message collapsed

Synthesized WhatsApp template submission status and implementation requirements
Synthesized WhatsApp template submission status and implementation requirements
Good — that's the correctly configured version this time (placeholders + buttons). Let me update the code to match the actual template name:


Find the template name constant
Find the template name constant


You are out of free messages until 4:05 PM




Claude is AI and can make mistakes. Please double-check respons



































